Hi, and welcome to the lecture
on hypothesis testing
as part of
the Statistical Inference Coursera class.
My name is Brian Caffo and
this class is co-taught by my
co-instructors Jeff Leek and Roger Peng.
We're all in the department
of Biostatistics at
the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School
of Public Health.
Given our existing work
on confidence intervals,
hypothesis testing will be
relatively easy to develop.
Hypothesis testing is concerned
with making decisions using data.
Typically, hypothesis testing starts with
a null hypothesis which is specified,
that represents the status quo.
It's usually labeled H0,
pronounced H naught.
The null hypothesis, H naught,
is assumed to be true, and
statistical evidence is required to
reject it in favor of an alternative or
so-called research hypothesis.
Let's motivate hypothesis testing
with a straightforward example.
A respiratory disturbance index,
RDI, of more than 30 events per
hour is considered evidence of
severe sleep disordered breathing.
Suppose that in a sample of 100 overweight
subjects with other risk factors for sleep
disordered breathing in a sleep clinic,
the mean RDI was 32 events per hour.
So the sample mean RDI
was 32 events per hour,
with a standard deviation
of 10 events per hour.
We'd like to test whether or not
the population mean for this population
that we're drawing the sample from
is equal to 30, our benchmark for
severe sleep disordered breathing, or
whether or not it's larger than 30.
So we specify that as H0,
mu equal to 30, and
the alternative hypothesis,
Ha as mu greater than 30.
In our example, we specified Ha
that mu was greater than 30.
However it could've been less than, or
not equal to, depending on the research
hypothesis that we were interested in.
In that application,
we're specifically interested in whether
the respiratory disturbance index for
this population was larger than 30.
Notice that the truth is either
that H0 is true or Ha is true.
We could either decide Ho or decide Ha.
Therefore there's only four possibilities.
If the truth is Ho,
and we decide H0, we have simply
correctly accepted the null hypothesis.
If the truth is H0, and we decide Ha, we
have made what is called a Type I error.
In the version of hypothesis
testing that we're going present,
we're going to control the probability
of a Type I error to be small.
If the truth is Ha and we conclude Ha,
we reject the null hypothesis,
then we've correctly rejected the null.
And if the truth is Ha, and we decide H0,
we've made what is called a Type II error.
The Type I error rate and
the Type II error rate are related
in the sense that as the Type I
error rate increases,
the Type II error rate decreases,
and vice versa.
We can illustrate this pretty easily
by considering a court of law.
In most courts,
the null hypothesis is that the defendant
is innocent until proven guilty.
Here, rejecting the null hypothesis
is to convict the defendant.
We're going to require evidence and
a standard on that evidence to
reject the null hypothesis.
If we set a very low standard, i.e.,
we don't require much in evidence to
convict people, then we're going to
increase the percentage of innocent people
convicted, Type I errors in this case.
However, we would also increase
the percentage of guilty people convicted,
which would be correctly
rejecting the null hypothesis.
If we set a very high standard, basically
a person has to have a smoking gun in
their hand, to convict them,
then we would increase the percentage of
innocent people let free, a good thing,
correctly accepting the null.
But we would also increase the percentage
of guilty people let free, or so called,
Type II errors.
And this illustrates how the two,
the Type I error rate and
the Type II error rate, are related.
Of course ideally, what you would
like is to get better evidence for
a given standard.
And that's the idea of doing things
like increasing the sample size.
But before we discuss
those sorts of issues,
let's talk about how we
conduct hypothesis tests.